# processing-household-composition-data

The scripts in this repository construct histograms of age-stratified household compositions from census data, primarily for use in infectious disease modelling. There are a few key pieces of terminology we will use in this readme. An *age class* is the set of people in a population who are in a specific age range. A *household* is a group of indivduals who are grouped together for epidemiological purposes, typically because they live together and/or form a nuclear family. A *household composition* is a vector indexed by the set of age classes which specifies the number of individuals in each age class present in a household. The composition of a household is defined up to the age classes chosen, so that the set of compositions present in a population are dependent on the age classes being used. The functions provided in this repository are designed to produce histograms of household compositions based on user-specified age classes, and to any of the spatial resolutions for which raw data exists. A major restriction is that we only allow for age classes which are a *coarsening* of the age classes used in the raw data, in the sense that each of the user-specified age classes must be either one of the age classes in the raw data or a union of consecutive age classes. For instance, if the raw data has age classes (0-20,20-40,40-60,60-80,80+), then (0-40.40-60.60+) is allowed but (0-35,35-45.45-60,60+) is not.

These scripts are primarily designed for processing the household data which is available from the UK's Office for National Statistics (ONS). The preprocessing subfolder is for scripts which reformat specific datasets to make them compatible with the rest of the scripts in the repository.

## functions
There are a few main functions provided in this repository.
